All right. Welcome, folks. We are in the VIP session
of day four for our positivity
experience here, the Emotional Freedom Challenge.
I hope you're having a good time. All
right. I've got... Heather, I see you.
I'm going to invite you to come join me as a
panelist. And as Heather's making her way in,
um-
Mm-hmm
... this is someone that I've just recently got to know.
Heather Kennedy. Hello, my
friend. You are still muted.
I'm on, I'm on, I'm on.
Hey, now you are live. Thank you
for joining me. Folks, this is Heather Jo
Kennedy. And I've noticed, Heather, you're shifting a little
more to just Heather Kennedy, or at least I've noticed that on, like,
social media and stuff.
It's an identity crisis. What can I say?
I know. I shifted from Dr. Jenkins to Dr.
Paul. But I-
There's no shift... So I grew up in the South, so it was Heather Jo.
But I don't live in the South anymore, so everyone calls me Heather, so I'm just
trying to go with it.
It's... Well, sometimes we pick our, our nicknames and
sometimes people give them to us.
Yeah.
In fact, our, our original name people gave to us.
We just take it.
We gotta outgrow it.
Hey, you guys, Heather is a professional
speaker. She is an expert on leadership.
She's an author. She is
a person who's creating some massive value out there in the
world. And Heather, you and I know each other through the National
Speakers Association, and we've done a few things.
We've collaborated a little bit.
Yep.
Which has been fun and it's been, very
illuminating to me
to get to know you and to learn what you have to
teach. And so I'm just excited to share you with
our group here, the, the VIP
group in our Emotional Freedom Challenge this
week. You had a chance to listen in a little bit on the Influence
Quadrant, and this is something that I think you have some knowledge
about. Maybe not the model specifically, but how
that plays out in real life. And I'm just wondering what's sticking and
clicking for you-
I-
... conversation.
Yeah, I wa- I actually watched the YouTube video last night 'cause I wasn't sure I
was gonna be able to hop on before this.
Oh, good.
I was gonna hop on and listen a little bit, but I love it.
Anytime you can kinda quantify and make a visual representation
of qualitative data, I'm just... I'm all in.
I did, I loved it. You, I loved that you talked about control, 'cause that's
something I could go on and on for a gazillion hours
about. I will just say one thing
when it comes to control, if you can think about the last time you were
frustrated-
Mm
... I guarantee it was a control issue.
Uh, we, we, we know it makes so much sense that we can't control other people.
That makes so much sense, but we do it all day long.
We think we can or we try, and we get frustrated when we can't.
Last time you were frustrated, it was 'cause you were trying to control someone or
something that you couldn't, or you were allowing someone or something to control
you when you shouldn't. So I just wanted to, to add that
little emphasis to your control message. That was really great.
That gets us into trouble all the time, doesn't it?
It does. It does.
And where is it that we learned that we can maybe
control the other people? I think-
Who knows?
You know, I've been-
... this on the call today because, I think as parents
we get deceived a little bit because we don't control other
humans except for our kids.
That's not true.
For a while.
We-
For a while. Right? I've got a whole other model on that, Heather.
No.
When we get into the moral development model-
Yes
... of the, the maturity of our kids determines how
much control they have and how much they share with their parents.
We've got a whole model for that too.
Mm-hmm.
But we get kind of lulled into this sense of, "Okay,
I'm in charge. I'm the parent. I'm in control here." And
then
we're not.
Mm-hmm.
And it kind of, it surprises us sometimes or it sneaks
up on us, but if we don't share control with our kids, they'll take
it.
Yep.
They don't ask.
Um-
One thing I'm... Oh, I'm trying to s- see, I am so bad at changing lanes.
I can see the chat and us saying something, but I'm not gonna look at it.
Tell me if I need to, Jim.
Maybe we can... I-
One thought that I had, what-
Wanna get that? We're just here with our VIP people, so if you see something you
wanna respond to, you can do it.
Oh, good. Oh, good. Oh, good. Um,
one thing I, one thought I did have last night was the
problem of confidence, and I don't know if you've
touched on that really, but
we, we overvalue
confidence. The... And, and I believe that your quadrant
really makes that very apparent. It, it, it's the problem of
confidence. Confidence is so overrated
because it's about us, and it waxes
and wanes based on our circumstances, our
performance. You have, you really don't have a lot of control
over confidence. And so, I just, I just think your
quadrant is so representative of that, that we shouldn't be looking
at confidence as much as we do. And, and I know the
objective, as someone who has spent a good amount of time in the
purple quadrant,
and I know the objective-
Yeah
... is the green. I, I do wanna say, and,
and I apologize for, for a little bit of a contrarian view, and you
probably talk about this, but you use the word, you use the word focus a
lot.And the goal is to focus. Make sure your
focus is outward. There's a great book by the Arbinger Institute, The Outward
Mindset, highly recommend. That's always the
objective, but it does take... I don't want people to feel
like they can't focus on themselves a little bit as the
means, and I'm sure you cover that, Dr.
Paul. But don't feel like when you're
preparing, i- if you feel like you have to prepare something to
say, it's okay to understand
your identity because you can't serve others truly
until you know what it is you have to offer.
So get crystal clear about that. That's not necessarily focus on
self.
Well-
Understanding your identity so that you can be the means to a
greater end, which is to serve, that's okay.
That's actually necessary.
And Heather, you're, you're calling right back to the
context
of the seven key relationships.
And you'll notice that the self
is-
Oh
... high on the list.
Absolutely.
High on the list.
But only as a means.
Because, well, because
as you take care of your key
relationships, everything higher on the
list affects everything lower on the list.
Mm-hmm.
And so when we, like when we were at the,
NSA meeting last night, and we were with some of our speaker colleagues who are
in front of audiences and rooms,
and, and is my focus on me when I'm in front of the
audience? But to get in front of the
audience, we have to do a lot of self work-
Yes
... where this relationship is solid.
And we're not depending on, you know, that external
validation.
Mm-hmm.
But we can show up
in our true identity, who we really are, not pretending,
not, you know, faking it, but showing up in a very
authentic way, and that allows us then to serve all of the other
relationships on the list.
Mm-hmm.
So and when, when we fil- look at...
And I love your point, Heather, because if we look at it just as,
okay, where's our focus-
Mm-hmm
... and we, and we don't put it in the context
of our seven key relationships,
then we miss the boat.
So good.
Right?
And you're such a good example of this. I hope everybody recognizes Dr.
Paul's such a good example of this because I watch you, and when you're doing a
webinar or you have all these YouTube videos, you don't have an interactive
audience. As a speaker, we thrive on the energy from the
audience. I know I do. So webinars, YouTube videos are
excruciating for me because I don't have that automatic
live feedback, but that's evidence that
you have absol- that you live what you preach because
you're not doing it for the, for the feedback.
You're doing it because you know exactly what you have to offer and
you're giving. So I, I just watch your energy.
When there's no response and your energy is just up here, and I'm like, "That is so
amazing," because you are about them.
Uh, it, and it's evidence. You, you'll feel it. You'll feel it.
Heather, thank you
for, for saying that and acknowledging it.
I'm realizing as you share that,
I feel honored first of all, and, and, and I'm like, "Okay, so it does
work."
Right? Big surprise. Okay. It worked.
Because like when I'm doing a YouTube shoot, I
do, 20 videos
in one day. I batch
them, okay? Because I'm not gonna go shoot a video every day or
even every week, but I batch them. So I come up with 20
titles. I come up with 20 outlines, and
then I schedule the shoot day, where the
videographer shows up, and we do one after another, and it
takes all day. And so what you're
saying is true. I mean, I think we get to manage
our energy. And if I show
up
in one of these quadrants, I'm gonna
burn out by video three, easy.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
When... And the trick, and I'm, I- I'm so glad you brought this up
because I'm, I'm
s- processing this even as we're having this conversation.
I've found that what works for me is getting into the
green
and remembering this is not about me.
How I feel is secondary.
And I connect with the lens of that camera.
It's right up here, right? And I connect with the lens of that camera, and
I picture that lens
as a little portal
to one person.
Mm.
Because most people who view my YouTube videos, like you did last
night, right? You, or this morning or whenever you watched that
video, it was just you
watching the video, usually on a personal device,
sometimes with earphones. It's a very
private, very intimate experience.
It's not an audience. It's a person.
And I ask myself, "How does that person feel
about themselves?
And can I serve them in this moment?" So I'm, I'm sharing that
because, your comment brought that to my awareness,
and I have practiced it a lot. And I said earlier, you
know, this is a skill you can develop. There's a lot of art to it.
There's some science to it, but it's also a skill set
that can be practiced and developed.You
become a practitioner. I've thrown that word around a little bit today too.
Yeah.
Um, and you can-
You can feel it. You can feel it. As, I mean, those of you who have spoken, even,
even if you're not a speaker, when you're in that green zone, we, we
said the word energy. The energy is
unreal. I, I, I delivered a
presentation on Tuesday. I'm still on...
I, I call it a speaker's high. I mean, the, the...
When you really, really are in that green zone, your energy just
goes through the roof, a- as do your recipients.
It really is a tangible feeling.
And I think energy management is probably more
important than time management.
For sure, because you can't c- again, control.
You can't control time.
Yeah.
You really can't. You really-
There it is again. That word-
Yeah
... just keeps coming up.
Yeah. It does.
Hey, Heather, I noticed our friend Jeff, you know Jeff Shu,
um-
I know Jeff
... Jeff wrote in the chat, "Heather wrote this book," and then he put
a link in there. For starters-
Yeah
... take just a minute to share with, with us today what that
resource is all about.
Yes. Thank you for the shout-out, Jeff. I wrote a book.
I get more, h- here we are at time management.
I, I get more hours out of the day than most people and, and that's not
literal, that's definitely figurative.
I, I'm just a productivity guru. I...
And so I identified six principles of
productivity that, that are
for starter. I call starters just elevated leaders.
Six principles of productivity that identify starters,
and I wrote a book about it. And, and one of them, I will just share
this, one of the principles is success hinges on having the right
team. And we're talking about relationships today, I can see.
And my team consists of three people and, and that, this is not
talking about your key relationships, but these are your three key influencers,
your coaches, your teammates, and your fans.
So I just wanna put a plug in for that challenge that you gave Dr.
Paul, and not looking about the team that serves
you, because there is one, but the way you serve the
world always start with being a fan.
I act- When I'm live and in person, I take
however many attendees, I, I've done this with a lot of people and it gets crazy
when there's too many people, but, but I take them through this exercise that
proves exactly what we're talking about, how the energy rises when you're serving
others. And, and one thing you know as a speaker is don't ever ask a question that
you don't already know the answer to.
But at the end of this exercise, I emphatically and confidently
ask the question, how did that feel?
Did that feel better than the first exercise? Which one did you prefer?
And always, the one where it's outward and service, hands down,
100%, everybody's like, "It was so much better serving." You
mentioned anxiety, stress, down, because we're thinking
outward. So find someone to just hype up with
no, with no
investment or thought of return on investment.
Yes. Which is all about today's challenge.
Mm-hmm.
Make a meaningful difference in the lives of three
other people. And pick them from anywhere in your key relationships.
It... There's reasons why this is true and, and the
psychology behind it is fascinating to me.
You've probably discovered I have this crazy, stupid human
trick that I can create visual models for complex
psychological principles, and the other one that I
don't actually have the card made for, but the book is almost
written, is called The Happy Nomics.
And it's all about what you just shared, Heather, that
this, there's a reason why serving
others is energetically
rich-
Mm-hmm
... for us. I mean, forget how it serves them for a
minute. I mean, that's really cool too, but it elevates
us and this, I think it, it affects the very fabric of
humanity.
Mm-hmm.
Is that too grandiose?
No. N- absolutely not. That's what humanity is all about.
Forgetting-
I just, I just realized too, Heather, I d- there's a little piece of the context
that's meaningful to me. I mean, your book is For
Starters, and for me, the word
starters has
relevance to sports.
Mm-hmm.
Because I've played on sports teams, you know, or as you follow your favorite
sports team, there are the starters, okay?
Those are the, the highest level players usually on the
team. And everybody on the team's important, but the starters, it's
just a little different level.
Mm-hmm.
And your dad was a starter.
Um, some of you may not be old enough like me to
remember the incomparable Danny White who
was one of the best players in the NFL,
quarterbacked for the Dallas Cowboys
and, was a very famous
NFL star. And
Heather, your birth was announced on the Jumbotron.
It was.
At the big game, right? So I know as you
draw on your experience, you guys probably
noticed that Heather makes references to your team, your coaches,
your fans, and she has reasons for knowing that
because that is the world that, that she was raised in.
I don't know if you wanna comment about that or not, Heather, but I just thought
that's a-
Oh
... fun little piece of the context for me.
I'm, yeah, I'm glad you brought u- brought it up 'cause I know that's important to
other people and I forget about it all the time.
Um-
It's just dad for you, right?
It's just Dad, yeah. What was it like growing up with a famous dad?
I don't know, he made me do my chores, you know? He was just Dad.
He didn't know he was famous?
Oh, but we got, we got some great lessons as kids all
the time, all day long. He was a coach too.
Not a lot of people know that, but like my kids call him Papa Coach 'cause he
is through and through a coach. But I did
grow up with a lot of influence from America's team in their
heyday, and, and lessons from legendary coach Tom Landry
that trickled down just because we had such a good relationship there.
But, but starters, going back to that
word,
sometimes we want to be a starter because
it's a qualifier for us. But what separates
the starters is the difference that they
make. Why are those five the first ones on the
court? Because they're the five that know how to make the difference
for the team. Why are those 11 on the field first as the
starters? Because they are going to make the difference that they
need to make for the team. So it is, it is an
outward, again, qualifier to be a
starter. And, and there are other metaphors too.
A starter, think about someone who starts,
starts the fire. I tell the story of my dad.
He, he took us camping a lot,
and he... One time he just came up to me and said, "All right, you're in
charge of making the fire, Heather." I was probably nine years old.
"You gotta build the fire or- and that we're gonna make our dinner on." So
I'm like, "Okay, he's taught me how to do this.
I got this." I start making the fire.
He comes back with a single match. A single match, you
guys. No box, no lighter fluid, just
a single match. He's like, "You got this, and if you don't, with one match, we're
gonna be hungry tonight." And I know this.
He walked away, and this man was gonna let us starve on principle.
I know that. So I figured it out, you bet.
I went back to that campfire, and I made sure everything was perfect because I
had a one shot. So that is how we develop starters, is
we make sure they go back to the foundation.
They learn everything that they, they need to know in order to make
that difference they were meant to make.
Ah. I love it. And Jeff's throwing you
another shout-out there about the book you wrote with your
dad.
Yes. It's good.
Fun little-
It's, he and I go back and forth on, on the lessons. Spotlights and shadows.
He was in the spotlight for so long, but we also have some perspective
from, from the shadows of being in that celebrity life that people
just don't realize.
And Jeff also mentioned, "Let us not forget, he
was a Super Bowl-winning QB."
Yep.
Oh, fun. Heather, thank you so
much. You-
Thanks for having me.
You always elevate whatever room you're in.
And-
Aw. Thank you
... so appreciated. Thank you so much.
I'm gonna go ahead and put you back in your seat.
You can participate however you want to in the Q&A.
Okay.
And, just
thank you so much for joining-
Thank you
... here today. All right, you guys, let's get to your
questions. The Q&A is open. The chat is
open. Um, Lindy says, "Thanks, Heather."
Yes, thanks to everybody
and, and from everybody. Robin, you said, "Take your shot."
That reminds me of another guest that we had recently, Ben
Kjar. By the way, I saw Ben had posted...
Some of you know Ben Kjar, K-J-A-R.
You can go look him up. A beautiful movie came out
about his life, and it's called
Stand Out. And Ben made the announcement, I saw on social
media, that that is now, because of the popularity
of the show, it is now becoming available to live
stream. You may not live in an area where Ben's movie premiered.
And Ben was a guest on one of my events, recently.
Just a wonderful, wonderful man who has an inspiring
story. Stand Out, his movie, and it's
coming to live stream. I can't even remember which platform it's
on, but, that will be available in May, I
think he said. So follow Ben Kjar on social media and you'll
see it, or the movie Stand Out.
Um, Natasha is putting it in the chat right
now.
All right. Do you guys have questions? What do you wanna talk about?
How is, how is the challenge going for you?
Anybody have something that they would like to share?
You can put that in the Q&A or in the chat as well.
Um, how is the, how is the challenge going for
you?
Maybe you don't have any comments about that.
Look, there's over 30 of us here in the room.
Lindy, you said, "It's been great." How has it been
great? Share something in the chat.
Let's get this going a little. Or I can turn you loose.
I mean, we can come back tomorrow. Let me reiterate
the challenge for today
and,
the offer that I put out there.
Remember, the offer is this. Um,
and Robin said, "I do invite me on. I do invite
me..." Oh, you want to say something,
Robin? Is that what you're saying?
You gotta raise your hand.
Um, Jen, you say, "Illuminating." Um, Jeff put in the,
link for the Stand Out film. Okay, we got a little bit of activity coming in
there. Um, Robin,
I think what you meant is invite me to come in as a panelist so that
I can actually talk. Is that what you meant?
'Cause I would give you that option.
All right, Robin, come talk to
me.You guys can raise your hands if
you want. We've got, a small enough group that if you raise
your hand, I could invite you to come on screen with me.
We'll see if that works.
Um, while we're waiting to see if Robin comes on and shares what
her, her thought is about this,
my invitation to you, in addition to the
challenge, which is make a meaningful difference for three
people, is that you think about who
invited you. Please think about who
invited you and consider whatever it is
that they're offering to help you move forward to go
from consuming principles of positivity to
practicing
posit-- to go to the practitioner level, whatever that means.
I have my own offering for that, and, let's put that back
in the chat. Jeff, if you have that,
that link, let's put it back in. Dr. Paul...
No, it's, the
emotionalfreedomchallenge.com/special.
And it's a special offer. I didn't even talk about how much it
is or anything like that. It's a higher touch, higher ticket offer.
It's like doing it with you. You get to have
a community
in a container in which to become a
practitioner of these principles.
Not just a consumer, a practitioner.
That's a higher level. And we've got other services available at higher or lower
levels, but I think this is the one that you're ready for.
And a lot of you are members of that community
already. Um, Cynthia says, "Great point
about the audience. Um, I've been
working through a long time. I had a love-hate relationship
with audience feedback." I know, right?
And Cynthia, I know that you are also a
performer, a singer. I know music is part of, of
your thing, so you're familiar with the concept of, of
audience. "I enjoy the feedback, but I've always wanted to
avoid being disingenuous with my delivery.
The picture has been painted of what confidence looks like
and that an over-energized response is what it looks like when you have
grabbed the audience's attention.
Maybe too much to articulate here in the writing." I love where you're
going with this, Cynthia. And, Heather, you brought this up
too, confidence. We're
talking more about that tomorrow.
In fact, I'm going to reference Ben Hardy and Dan
Sullivan, a conversation that they had about the four Cs
that Dan Sullivan has always taught in his strategic coach program.
I was a member of that program. I was one of their clients,
and I learned these four Cs a couple of decades ago.
But to hear that conversation, I've got some insights about
confidence that we will get into tomorrow.
And Heather, you pointed out,
when we were chatting just now, Heather, you said, that
confidence, you know, we sometimes expect it or
we demand it of ourselves, and it, it's not
something that we can just choose.
It's really more of a, a strategic side effect of some
other things. We'll get into that tomorrow.
Um, Cynthia, in your comment, as you're talking
about the audience
feedback, feedback
is information,
and i-it's really common that we misinterpret that
information. See, the feedback is about the
source
of the feedback. You've probably heard the phrase consider the
source. Well,
yes, consider the source. Feedback is
information about the source.
Now, it's easy to misinterpret that because, well, they're giving feedback
about my performance or my speech or my
service. Yes,
but it's through their filter. So really,
if somebody said you had a wonderful
performance, that doesn't mean you had a
wonderful performance. It means that that
person experienced you
as having a wonderful performance, okay?
They, they experienced the performance as wonderful because you might get
the next comment that says, "That s****d." Okay?
I know, harsh language. Sorry, should have warned
you. "That
s****d." Does it mean your performance
s****d? No. It means
that person experienced
that your performance s****d, okay, for whatever reason.
Now, it's good information to have because how other people experience
you may be helpful feedback
as you take a look inside and you say, "Well, let me
check." And what if you have ten people that say it was
wonderful and one people says-- one person says it s****d?
Which one are you gonna believe?
And that's why, Heather said something about this too.
Let's have some confidence inside of ourselves that doesn't have us depending
on that feedback, but we can just take it in as
information.
Pardon me. I better stay hydrated.
All right. Jeff, thank you for posting that.
The emotionalfreedomchallenge.com/special.
If you already know that's right for you, just sign
up. You will be glad you did. If you're not sure if
it's right for you, don't sign
up.We only want people in there that it's a
good fit. If this is resonating with you this week, I think it would be
a good fit but what you think is more important than that.
And we'll get into it in a little more detail tomorrow, okay?
I'll share with you more of the details of what that looks like
but remember my first invitation to you is go back to whoever invited you.
They probably got a service that could help you as you move
forward. Um, Nina, you're saying, "I started the gratitude
challenge." People are like, "Where's Nina?" It's Christine
on the chat, okay? But I know that it's Nina.
"I started the gratitude
challenge, had my guest
doing it, and I was checking in, and then I had someone call in a
crisis, and she said, 'I am struggling to have hope.'
Ding, ding. I shared the gratitude exercise with her to do it
for five days, and she thanked me." Yes.
Technically, Nina, and, and you're a master coach, okay?
And by the way, you guys, if Nina invited you, go talk to Nina
about what she offers. She's an amazing
coach. And I know this. I've worked with
Nina. I've certified her as a positivity practitioner.
Um, okay, I get distracted. Um,
technically, Nina, hope... Let's go
back to the model. Hope is here,
okay? Peace is here.
The route to hope comes through
peace. Peace is most likely achieved through
gratitude. At least that's the fastest, most
effective way we know to get there, and that's why the
challenge is in place. The gratitude power up, and
it's not just about what's easy to be grateful for, okay?
That's a wimp out, not a workout. You want to find something that's difficult,
painful, frustrating, hard. In that thing, what am I
grateful for? That brings your heart and
mind to peace with what it is. You make
peace with it.
And I, I know I'm
nitpicking here a little bit, Nina, but you're a master coach, so I want you
to be very aware of the subtleties.
This is peace. From a position of peace,
we can now choose hope
for better things to come. But this is all about prediction, and the better by
eight
is specifically geared to trigger hope
because
I'm gonna have an upgrade
by eight o'clock, not even next week, eight
o'clock.
Okay? So this-- We're at practitioner level here.
Practitioner level would say, "Okay, awesome.
She's struggling with hope." You know, inside of your mind, how do we
help her see a path to hope where it
can become choice? All
right? And you're saying, "Thank you. I needed that refresher." Yeah.
We're practicing, right? I call what I do a practice too.
I'm practicing all the time, and we will
gain the skill set as we practice.
Um, thank you, Nina, for giving us an opportunity to discuss
that. Let's go to... Oh, Heather. "Confidence is difficult
to control." Yes, it is. Um, "Look
instead to growth, discomfort, and
balance, which ironically serve your
level of confidence." I know. I
said
early in today's challenge, I
said, "Get comfortable with what?"
You remember? Get comfortable with
being uncomfortable
because like you're pointing out, Heather, it's, it's a, one of those paradoxes.
I love paradoxes because it's like,
what? To, to experience that confidence, part of
the path to confidence is through discomfort.
Um, you'll see that a little more clearly tomorrow when we get into the four Cs.
Um, Melanie: "My ex has
pinned my only child
against me." I know. I hate
that. Right? I, I told you, I did
child custody evaluations
for thirteen year-- well, closer to fifteen actually.
I was doing the math just, this morning.
I was updating my LinkedIn profile, and I'm like, "That was actually a little
longer than I thought." Yeah.
"My ex has pinned my only child against me, therefore my grandchildren
have been taken away from me. Um, disconnected
me in all aspects." I am sorry about
that. "I have used confidence and hope, but it's going on the fourth
year. A big issue. Any suggestions?"
Oh, yes, Melanie. This is such a tough one.
You know what? I was recently... Well, recently.
It's probably been two years now.
Um, I was invited to speak
for a group.
The, the name of the group was Our
Alienated Grandchildren Matter.
That was literally the name of the group.
You can go look them up probably and find them.
I don't know if they're on Facebook or...
But I, I was invited to do a little training
for this group, and these are grandparents who have been
cut off from
access to or a relationship with their
grandkids.
Such a difficult circumstance. Vicki
and I have the blessing of having
access. I mean, none of our grandchildren live in our time zone.
There are three other time zones. So what does access mean?I mean,
my, my sister has one of her grandkids living in her basement
and we did for a while too. I mean, it,
it is what it is, whatever it is,
right? Um, so
I would invite you first
to take the path that we just talked about,
okay? Melanie, so looking at, looking at the
model, all right? The path to hope is
through peace
and that means we get to make peace
with what it is, and what it is is
neutral.
It doesn't feel neutral, but that's because of the stories and
the narratives that we've created in our mind about our
circumstance. So,
making peace with what it is
is the first step. You know, so you ask, any
suggestions. Yeah, make peace with it.
Make peace with it. Now, there might be a part of your mind that says, "But I can't
make peace with being cut off from my grandkids." Cut
off from my grandkids is not a circumstance, it's a
thought
and that thought may not support your
peace,
okay? Now, what other thoughts are available?
Part of my job as a coach
is to
introduce
alternate stories, and I
can't ask you to believe something
that is so outlandish that it's not even possible or
plausible
or true.
So I try to
introduce alternate narratives or stories that
are plausible.
Possible, even if unlikely,
and dare we say true.
All right? So, think about your
grandkids.
Um,
my grandchildren
are whatever, okay? And, and stay
with the circumstances. My grandchildren are three,
seven, and 11.
They live in
- as far as I know, they live in
wherever, okay? So, I'll just think of one of my-- Uh,
my grandson is five years
old. He lives in Puerto Rico.
Okay, that's a circumstance. It's the-- something you could
report on the news. Notice that that is totally neutral.
Now, any story I have about that, like I don't
get to see him very much,
is a story because now we've gone into
evaluation mode. Here's how much I get to see
him,
and how much I get to see him is whatever it is,
okay? So I think about this specific example, and again,
this is our story
with my details. You insert your own details, Melanie.
My, my grandson is five years old.
He lives in Puerto Rico. I saw him
at Halloween time in October when he
visited here, and I saw him last summer in
Connecticut where we had a little family reunion.
All right, that's data. That's circumstances.
I don't get to see him very much is a story
because I'm comparing it to seeing him more, which I
think would be better, and then I'm gonna feel negative energy
about that, and I'm not at peace with that, okay?
I've just created depression.
I get to see him quite a bit.
All right? The data is still the same.
Compared to never seeing him in the last
year, I get to see him twice
in person, in the flesh. What?
Uh, it's a different position, a different attitude.
What if you could make peace with
what it is? Now, I'm using my details, and that may not help you because your
details are extraordinary, right?
I mean... All right, you guys. Just connect
with that because we believe at some level that our
circumstances are extraordinary and the
narratives that we use to share them with
others. Uh, Melanie, I would even just invite you to see
how, how you have
presented it in your question. This connected me
in all aspects. Okay, this is becoming a
story because words like that imply
some emotional energy, and I'm not saying you're wrong.
I am not arguing
with your take on this. I'm inviting you to, to
differentiate between circumstance, which is neutral,
and narrative, which is not because that
energy matters
and especially-- So go back to what I was sharing earlier about,
this group, the, Our Alienated
Grandchildren Matter. I don't know if they were glad that I ca- Well, they
were, many of them, but I think they were expecting somebody
like the attorney that had spoken just
before me, like the previous month in their meeting.
This attorney was telling them what their rights are for
visitation of their grandkids and how they can sue
their children for visitation
rights.That could never
go south. Oh my gosh. The
only path
until they reach an age of independence
where they can make-- do- they take control of their own life.
The only path
to connection with our grandkids is through our kids,
and that turns on some lights. Go back to what we talked about on
day two when we got into the creation
process. You feel the discontent, make the
choice, choose your position, make peace with what it is because
then the next question is, if not this, then what?
You know, how am I gonna create that? That's the plan, okay?
So we go back to what we talked about on day two.
There's a process, Melanie, to get there, and the only
connection you have with your grandkids is through your
children. And don't get into victim mode where you blame your
ex. Okay. "I know, but it is his
fault." Okay. That's a victim
position because it takes your hands off of the
wheel. I want your hands back on the wheel
because now we can steer it somewhere.
Is this kinda tough? I know.
I promised you guys I'd talk as straight to you as I can.
Um, Cynthia: "Thank you, Dr. Paul.
Great feedback from me on that point." Good information from Heather also.
Yes, I agree. Uh, Nina: "I'm struggling with the better by eight.
Can you remind us if the BBA exercise, like cliff notes?" Yeah,
BBA, eight o'clock is coming. Check your
clock. It's coming, right? You
ask your powerful mind: What could I
do to make some aspect of my life...
and you get to pick that aspect, better
by eight? Not next month, next week, next year.
Eight o'clock. See, that limits the scope.
When we look at improving our life and choosing
hope, it feels hopeless when everything is so
big and so huge and overwhelming. We're bringing it down to,
okay, just what could I do by eight?
It's like eating an elephant one step at a time or one bite at a time,
right? Um, what can I do to make
some im-- Pick your relationships, your finances, your business,
your health. Whatever it is,
better by eight. What could I do? Your brain is going to give
you
all kinds of things
that you could do. We don't often ask our brain to give that
to us, and our brain's just sitting there waiting to dutifully
fulfill whatever our request is.
Like, "This really sucks," and your brain is
like, "Aye, aye, Captain. I'm gonna go
find you five reasons why that's true," 'cause your brain's job is to
keep you safe and prove you right.
What if you say, "Okay, brain. What are some ways I could make my
life worse?" And it's like, "Okay, that's weird, but I
can come up with five or ten of those," and you just did, didn't ya?
I mean, it just-- How quickly does our brain come up with that?
We're asking our brain to work for us and not
against us. "Hey, brain. What could I
do by eight o'clock to make this aspect of my
life better?" And it'll be like, "Oh, okay.
Here's five things. Pick one of
those." That's better by eight, you know?
And it resets
at eight because there's another one coming in twelve hours,
right? Is that a good enough cliff note?
Being uncomfortable, uncomfortable.
Yes. Um, Melanie: "Been divorced twenty-five
years. Twenty-five years of divorce.
No other family. I've been living neutral."
There's such richness in that, Melanie. Oh my gosh.
I'm just thinking. And
what's coming for you?
You don't know.
But notice you've got some predictions about that, and you've absolutely got
something to do with it.
Don't forget that part. I think you get-- As you make peace
with your what it is, you get to step
into your powerful role as a
creator, and you're gonna go create something that doesn't even exist
yet, and it's going to exceed your expectations.
Rachel: "I've lived years with almost no hope, and I've
come a long way. I realize we need the challenge of thought
pattern to get out of the pit." Yeah.
"But I needed people to help me out of my spot in life and start to feel
safe before I could feel hope. And as I started to feel
safe and cared for, I, over the course of years, could start to
feel hope. Going through the divorce process over five
years now, five children, and almost now four grandchildren,
it's still a journey to feel hope, but I'm doing so much
better." Hmm. Rachel, I feel
you.
This-- You know, sometimes we tell ourselves, "It's just gonna take a
long time." Time does not
correct this
because if you spend the time
fueling a story, I call it a victim
story, you're gonna get worse.
Guaranteed, okay? Yeah, I'm a professional
psychologist. I have witnessed this.
I have, I have seen people perish
because that story hijacked them,
and their circumstances are neutral.
Because I've seen other people with comparable or arguably
worse circumstances rise to
hope-Quickly.
It doesn't take time, it takes transformation,
and transformation is not easy. Um,
okay. And we're going back and forth a little bit, but I'm just scrolling through
the chat. Uh, they live ten miles away.
Three years, four years, six years old.
I would appreciate even FaceTime, but nothing. I know.
So notice, notice there's an emotional attachment to that.
That suggests a story. See, circumstances are neutral.
Stories are not. And it's our-- So
feeling, feeling can be described in one
word, sometimes two, but usually one.
What is my feeling? If you say, "I feel like
nobody loves me," that's not a feeling.
In, in fact, any time you say the word like, it's a
thought, not a feeling. This distinction is important,
especially as we get into coaching. Let me just...
Oh, we've got one in the Q&A. Let me just see what popped up in there.
Virginia. I've been a long-term sub teacher since
November and will be there until the end of the year, seventh grade
ELA. I have a few students that after today I
realized I have been very much in the purple quadrant with.
Yeah, awareness precedes choice, Virginia.
I would love some suggestions on how to get into the green quadrant with
them.
Awareness precedes choice.
Until you see it as a choice, it's not, and you roll with whatever your programming
is. I bet, Virginia, as you interact with them, this will come to
mind. This will come to mind for you, and it will
change the game. Because as you see it, you can say, "Oh, that's
purple. Okay. Yeah, that's my programming.
That's kinda where I go. I wonder what I could do
to shift over to green." And you will see yourself starting to
change your focus and, and ask yourself, "How did they feel
about themselves?" And it will change how you show up for them.
Awareness precedes choice. That's the great thing.
Virginia, you're a coach too, and if Virginia invited you, reach out
to Virginia because she's an amazing coach.
It-- The awareness puts you in a position where you can actually start to
choose and to steer it, and it takes some practice. Okay?
I am a sixth-degree black belt in positivity.
I practice it all day, every day, and I'm still working on
it. Heather says, "Facts versus postulates, such
productive thinking. Those narratives feel so real." I know,
right? But that metacognition is powerful.
Prayers for you, Melanie. Yeah, a-and feel that,
Melanie, because we feel you. This is our
story, your details. We all get
hijacked by it. We all do. Um, I hope
you feel that support. Um,
let's see. And the divorce issues and all that. One small please.
Thank you. Divorce twenty-five years ago. I need to not control me anymore.
Yes, yes, yes.
Melanie, mm. We're sending you energy, okay?
Get, get yourself in the driver's seat.
Enough, right?
Ah. Thank you, Dr. Paul. Light bulb's going off.
Yes, or on, in this case maybe. Great informational value from Heather
on confidence. Maybe I'll make it on tomorrow. Yes, please come back tomorrow.
Everybody come back tomorrow. We're almost out of time here. I'm sixty.
I want to be the, the next Sister Wendy
Nelson. Oh, yes, Dr. Paul, we are the
same age. Yes, we are, Melanie. Yes, we are.
My-- And my twin sister right there with us.
You know, sometimes we think we're right at the end of our life, and we
don't realize what end.
You guys got this. All right. Um,
thank you. You honor me with your presence. I know I tell you that.
I honestly feel it. And, we're gonna have
a little fun tomorrow as we bring this to a close, okay?
Um, Melanie, just to address your question, who can I talk to?
There are several ways to get to
Chicago, okay? Do it yourself is an option.
And we've got this wonderful membership site called Live On Purpose
Central. I also invited you-- Go back to whoever invited you.
Whoever invited you has resources. Thank them.
We're sharing this one with you, and then find out what else they can
do for you. If you want to work more with me, we've got
membership. It's sixty-seven dollars a month.
Um, we've got the Positivity Practitioner
community, which is what I think...
If you spend five days with me here, you're ready for that
level. This is where you would fit the best.
So go to, the
emotionalfreedomchallenge.com/special,
and the value that we offer is over thirty thousand dollars when you add
up all of the features and the components.
It's a thirty thousand dollar
value, and we are offering it at a
special rate for the Emotional Freedom Challenge under three grand.
And that's for a full year. It gets you a two-day
breakthrough event in April, but we repeat those every
quarter. And once you're in, you can come to any of them
at no additional charge. The-- Some of you are already in the practitioner
community,
and all you have to do is maintain your membership.
Once, once your first year is up, you can renew for a full year
or month by month and still have access to all those
features. I'm not gonna tell you what all the features are.
That's a quicker way to get there.And if you are ready to lean
in, that is for you, the
emotionalfreedomchallenge.com/special.
I hope you join us in that community, and that's kind of selfish too because
I get to know you there. Um, I get to
participate at a higher level than I do with the membership.
I don't even know the people who are in the membership.
This is where I get to interact. And Nina, you said, "Yes, life-changing
positivity practitioner." You're part of that community, Nina.
We know each other. We've been on each other's podcasts.
Um, great stuff. Oh, Melanie, I invited you?
Awesome. Thanks for coming. I know you've carried around that little portable
positivity in your book-- in your, purse for a while.
How cool is that? Um, if you, if
you are ready to lean in at that level, find the
resources and get in. We're gonna talk about
moving forward tomorrow, okay? I'm gonna try to give you the
nudge toward whatever is next for
you. Oh, Natasha just put in the chat too, you can
schedule a strategy call too if you'd like with
either Natasha or Jeff, and they can talk to you about all of the,
the ins and outs, what's all,
involved in all of that. And then we, we do have a
plane available, and there's even some seats on first class.
That is high ticket. It's high touch.
These are people-- I sit in their living rooms.
Um, for my... That's the first class section.
But we've got master coaches, including Natasha and Jeff and
my daughter Lindy, who are master coaches and provide
hand-holding, okay? If you want a private coach, that's
that higher level. We've got, we've got services across the
spectrum. Find out what's next for you and
take meaningful action to move forward with
that, okay? That's the short version.
We'll talk about that a little bit more tomorrow.
You guys are awesome. Thank you so much for being here.
I will see you again tomorrow for day
five of The Emotional Freedom Challenge. Thanks for joining us here.
We'll see you later. Bye-bye.